---
title: "<i>Parasalinivibrio latis</i> gen. nov., sp. nov., isolated from the distal gut of healthy farmed Asian Seabass (<i>Lates calcarifer</i>)"
collection: publications
category: manuscripts
permalink: /publication/tll-se01
excerpt: 'This paper describes a novel marine bacterium TLL-SE01 isolated from the instestinal contents of a healthy farmed Asian Seabass. A comphrehensive polyphasic taxonomic analysis of this strain places it in a novel genus <i>Parasalinivibrio</i> within the family Vibrionaceae. In addition, we re-evaluated the AAI genus demarcation boundary for genomes within Vibrionaceae.'
date: 2024-11-09
venue: '<a href="https://doi.org/10.1007/s10482-024-02036-x" target="_blank">Antonie van Leeuwenhoek</a>'
slidesurl: # 'http://academicpages.github.io/files/slides1.pdf'
paperurl: 'https://shuaneryx.github.io/files/Parasalinivibrio_latis_gen_nov_sp_nov_isolated_fro.pdf'
citation: '<br/><b>Er, S et al.</b> <i>Parasalinivibrio latis</i> gen. nov., sp. nov., isolated from the distal gut of healthy farmed Asian Seabass
(<i>Lates calcarifer</i>). <i>Antonie van Leeuwenhoek 118, 25</i>. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10482-024-02036-x'
# citation: 'Your Name, You. (2009). &quot;Paper Title Number 1.&quot; <i>Journal 1</i>. 1(1).'
---

Abstract
---
Asian Seabass (*Lates calcarifer*) is widely farmed as a sustainable source of protein for countries in the tropical Indo-West Pacific region. However, microbial species of the gut microbiome of healthy Asian Seabass remain largely uncharacterized and uncultured. Here, we analysed the microbial composition along the gastrointestinal tract of a farmed healthy Asian Seabass. We used different cultivation approaches to obtain isolates from the seabass intestinal tract and describe the isolation and characterization of a novel strain, TLL-SE01<sup>T</sup>. Analysis of the strain’s 16S rRNA gene indicates that the strain belongs to the family *Vibrionaceae* with *Photobacterium damselae* as its closest relative, albeit sharing only 94.8% (aligned region 1553 bp) nucleotide identity. Comparative genomic analysis with all validly published *Vibrionaceae* species with available genomes revealed average nucleotide identity (ANI) and DNA–DNA hybridisation (DDH) values of around 70% and 24% respectively to strain TLL-SE01<sup>T</sup>, which are well below proposed thresholds for species delineation (ANI, 95–96%; DDH, 70%). The alignment fraction and ANI genus demarcation boundaries for all genera in the *Vibrionaceae* family were determined for which strain TLL-SE01<sup>T</sup> is well below the calculated values, indicating that it belongs to a novel genus. Single- and core-gene phylogenetic analysis places strain TLL-SE01<sup>T</sup> in a monophyletic clade, further supporting its designation to a novel genus. Phenotypic comparison between strain TLL-SE01<sup>T</sup> and its close relatives indicated additional differences, such as growth response at different salt concentrations and different metabolic capabilities. Based on genotypic, phylogenetic and phenotypic differences to other *Vibrionaceae* species, we propose a novel species in a new genus, *Parasalinivibrio latis* gen. nov. sp. nov. and strain TLL-SE01<sup>T</sup> (= BCRC 81435T = JCM 36283T) as the type strain.

Description of *Parasalinivibrio* gen. nov.
---
*Parasalinivibrio* (Parasalinivib’rio Gr. prep. para, beside, near, like; N.L. masc. n. *Salinivibrio*, a bacterial genus name; N.L. masc. n *Parasalinivibrio*, beside the genus *Salinivibrio*.). Cells are uniform, rod-shaped (0.9–1.6 µm long), Gram-negative, facultative anaerobes, catalase- and oxidase-positive. Members can metabolise tryptophan to indole, as well as utilise inositol, sorbitol, gentiobiose and L-fucose as carbon sources. The type species is *Parasalinivibrio latis*.

Description of *Parasalinivibrio latis* sp. nov.
---
*Parasalinivibrio latis* (la’tis. N.L. gen. n. latis, of the seabass genus *Lates*, the host from which the type strain was isolated). Colonies grown on Marine agar 2216 (Difco) are smooth, flat and circular after incubation for two days under atmospheric conditions. Growth occurs over the range of 10 °C to 37 °C. Moderately halophilic, growth occurs between 1 and 6% (w/v) NaCl, but not at 0% and 8% NaCl. Growth also occurs between pH 5 and pH 10. The DNA G + C content is about 49.5 mol%. The major cellular fatty acids are summed feature 3 ­ (C16:1<sub>ω6c</sub>/C16:1<sub>ω7c</sub>), summed feature 8 ­ (C18:1<sub>ω6c</sub>/C18:1<sub>ω7c</sub>), iso-C16:0, ­ C17:0, ­ C16:0 and iso-C15:0. API 20E analysis showed positive reactions for ß-galactosidase and arginine dihydrolase activities, and production of indole. API 50 CH assay indicated positive reactions for the utilisation of glycerol, galactose, glucose, fructose, mannose, inositol, mannitol, sorbitol, N-acetylglucosamine, esculin, cellobiose, maltose, lactose, sucrose, trehalose, starch, glycogen, gentiobiose, L-fucose and gluconate. API ZYM testing showed positive reactions for alkaline phosphatase, leucine-arylamidase and acid phosphatase; weakly positive reactions for esterase, esterase lipase, valine arylamidase, cystine arylamidase, naphtol-AS-BI-phosphohydrolase, α-glucosidase and N-acetyl-ß-glucosaminidase. The type strain is TLL-SE01<sup>T</sup> (= BCRC ­ 81435T = JCM ­ 36283T), isolated from the distal intestine of a healthy farmed Asian Seabass (*Lates calcarifer*) in Singapore. The GenBank accession numbers for the 16S rRNA gene sequence and complete genome of strain TLL-SE01<sup>T</sup> are OP963388 and CP098812 – CP098814, respectively.